## The basics of production delivering a breakfast
#### Production operation
- in production jargon
- time offset
- limiting step
- Production operation: process, assembly and test
- equipment capacity, manpower, and inventory can be traded off against each other and then balanced against delivery time.
- there is a right answer, the one that can give you the best delivery time and product quality at the lowest possible cost. To find that right answer, you must develop a clear understanding of the trade-offs between the various factors—manpower, capacity, and inventory—and you must reduce the understanding to a quantifiable set of relationships.
- A common rule we should always try to heed is to detect and fix any problem in a production process at the lowest-value stage possible
#### indicator
- 5 indicator production, man-power, equipment capacity, inventory and quality.
- we should look at indicators in pair. because we usually try to optimize for indicator. (joint monitoring)
- measur output not the activity!!!
- what you measure should be a physical, countable thing
- Such indicators have many uses. First, they spell out very clearly what the objectives of an individual or group are. Second, they provide a degree of objectivity when measuring an administrative function. Third, and as important as any, they give us a measure by which various administrative groups performing the same function in different organizations can be compared with each other
- Of course, for leading indicators to do you any good, you must believe in their validity. While this may seem obvious, in practice, confidence is not as easy to come by as it sounds.
- linearity indicator: we should achive the goal in a linear fation. 
- trend indicator: compare current month to previous month. these help you extrapolate and reason if performance is not good this month.
- stagger chart: forecast for several next month and update monthly.
- If the manager examined everything his various subordinates did, he would be meddling, which for the most part would be a waste of his time. Even worse, his subordinates would become accustomed to not being responsible for their own work, knowing full well that their supervisor will check everything out closely. The principle of variable inspection applied to managerial work nicely skirts both problems, and, as we shall see, gives us an important tool for improving managerial productivity.
#### Productivity
- The productivity of any function occurring within it is the output divided by the labor required to generate the output.
- Thus, one way to increase productivity is to do whatever we are now doing, but faster.
- There is a second way to improve productivity. We can change the nature of the work performed: what we do, not how fast we do it. “work smarter, not harder.”
- leverage, which is the output generated by a specific type of work activity. An activity with high leverage will generate a high level of output;
- Automation is certainly one way to improve the leverage of all types of work. Having machines to help them, human beings can create more output.
- something else can also increase the productivity of the black box. This is called work simplification
- in "soft professions" -the administrative, professional, and managerial workplace-, it becomes very difficult to distinguish between output and activity. And as noted, stressing output is the key to improving productivity, while looking to increase activity can result in just the opposite.
#### What Is a Manager’s Output?
- a manager output = The output of his organization + The output of the neighboring organizations under his influence
- individual contributors who gather and disseminate know-how and information should also be seen as middle managers, because they exert great power within the organization.
- I was once asked by a middle manager at Intel how I could teach in-plant courses, visit manufacturing plants, concern myself with the problems of people several levels removed from me in the organization, and still have time to do my job. I asked him what he thought my job was, He thought for a moment, and then answered his own question, “I guess those things are your job too, aren’t they?” They are absolutely my job—not my entire job, but part of it, because they help add to the output of Intel.
- My day always ends when I’m tired and ready to go home, not when I’m done. I am never done. Like a housewife’s, a manager’s work is never done. There is always more to be done, more that should be done, always more than can be done.
- A manager must keep many balls in the air at the same time and shift his energy and attention to activities that will most increase the output of his organization. In other words, he should move to the point where his leverage will be the greatest.
### gather information
- In short, information-gathering is the basis of all other managerial work, which is why I choose to spend so much of my day doing it.
#### reports:
- I have to confess that the information most useful to me, and I suspect most useful to all managers, comes from quick, often casual verbal exchanges.
    - [written reports] What they do is constitute an archive of data, help to validate ad hoc inputs, and catch, in safety-net fashion, anything you may have missed.
    - As they are formulated and written, the author is forced to be more precise than he might be verbally
    - Writing the report is important; reading it often is not.
#### where to gather
- To improve and maintain your capacity to get information, you have to understand the way it comes to you. There’s a hierarchy involved.
- Verbal sources are the most valuable, but what they provide is also sketchy, incomplete, and sometimes inaccurate, like a newspaper headline that can give you only the general idea of a story.
- information sources should complement one another, and also be redundant because that gives you a way to verify what you’ve learned.
- That is to visit a particular place in the company and observe what’s going on there.
#### source of information
- Beyond relaying facts, a manager must also communicate his objectives, priorities, and preferences as they bear on the way certain tasks are approached. This is extremely important, because only if the manager imparts these will his subordinates know how to make decisions themselves that will be acceptable to the manager, their supervisor.
- Someone adhering to the values of a corporate culture—an intelligent corporate citizen—will behave in consistent fashion under similar conditions, which means that managers don’t have to suffer the inefficiencies engendered by formal rules, procedures, and regulations that are sometimes used to get the same result.
#### decion-making
- once in a while we managers in fact make a decision. But for every time that happens, we participate in the making of many, many others, and we do that in a variety of ways
#### nodgin
- you are not issuing an instruction or a command. Yet you’re doing something stronger than merely conveying information. Let’s call it “nudging” because through it you nudge an individual or a meeting in the direction you would like.
- In reality, for every unambiguous decision we make, we probably nudge things a dozen times.
#### being a role model
- we are role models for people in our organization—our subordinates, our peers, and even our supervisors
- Values and behavioral norms are simply not transmitted easily by talk or memo, but are conveyed very effectively by doing and doing visibly.
- A great deal of a manager’s work has to do with allocating resources: manpower, money, and capital. But the single most important resource that we allocate from one day to the next is our own time.
- How you handle your own time is, in my view, the single most important aspect of being a role model and leader.
- Meetings provide an occasion for managerial activities. Getting together with others is not, of course, an activity—it is a medium.
- Clearly the key to high output means being sensitive to the leverage of what you do during the day.
- Managerial productivity—that is, the output of a manager per unit of time worked—can be increased in three ways:
1.  Increasing the rate with which a manager performs his activities, speeding up his work.
2.  Increasing the leverage associated with the various managerial activities.
3.  Shifting the mix of a manager’s activities from those with lower to those with higher leverage.
Managerial meddling is also an example of negative leverage. This occurs when a supervisor uses his superior knowledge and experience of a subordinate’s responsibilities to assume command of a situation rather than letting the subordinate work things through himself.
negative leverage produced comes from the fact that after being exposed to many such instances, the subordinate will begin to take a much more restricted view of what is expected of him, showing less initiative in solving his own problems and referring them instead to his supervisor.
