# Deep Reinforcement Learning is a waste of time
tags:
- [[reinforcement-learning]]

refrence:
```
@misc{rlblogpost,
    title={Deep Reinforcement Learning is a waste of time},
    author={Toy, Jason},
    howpublished={\url{http://www.jtoy.net/blog/deep-reinforcement-learning-is-a-waste-of-time.html}},
    year={2019}
}
```

> the RL core issue: manual reward engineering. In Deep RL, I would say most of time is spent on engineering your reward function to get your agent to do what you want.

> Reward engineering turns into an experimental process of trial and error to find what works. There are countless documented reports of Deep RL models doing all kind of unexpected movements.

> The main benefit of going from more traditional machine learning methods to Deep Learning was that manual laborious engineering has been removed. You can theoretically give the model a bunch of data, run your optimization algorithm, and it would learn without you manually writing feature extraction code. So Deep Learning has been applied to part of reinforcement learning, mostly on the agent side taking in perception data in the form of pixels, but if you are still spending most of your time hand engineering the system, then in my mind its still doesn’t work.

>  We don’t need more models that can play more video games, we need to implement models that can learn generalized representations between the agent and their environment that can be learned in a fully unsupervised manor.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[reinforcement-learning]: ..\reinforcement-learning "Reinforcement Learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"