# Deep Reinforcement Learning Doesn't Work Yet
tags:
- [[reinforcement-learning]]

refrence:
```
@misc{rlblogpost,
    title={Deep Reinforcement Learning Doesn't Work Yet},
    author={Irpan, Alex},
    howpublished={\url{https://www.alexirpan.com/2018/02/14/rl-hard.html}},
    year={2018}
}
```
> Now, I believe it can work. If I didn’t believe in reinforcement learning, I wouldn’t be working on it. But there are a lot of problems in the way, many of which feel fundamentally difficult. The beautiful demos of learned agents hide all the blood, sweat, and tears that go into creating them.

> It’s easy to write a story around a positive result. It’s hard to do the same for negative ones. The problem is that the negative ones are the ones that researchers run into the most often. In some ways, the negative cases are actually more important than the positives.

#### Deep Reinforcement Learning Can Be Horribly Sample Inefficient

> The answer depends on the game, so let’s take a look at a recent Deepmind paper, Rainbow DQN (Hessel et al, 2017). This paper does an ablation study over several incremental advances made to the original DQN architecture, demonstrating that a combination of all advances gives the best performance. It exceeds human-level performance on over 40 of the 57 Atari games attempted. The results are displayed in this [handy chart](https://www.alexirpan.com/public/rl-hard/rainbow_dqn.png). 

> RainbowDQN passes the 100% threshold at about 18 million frames. This corresponds to about 83 hours of play experience, plus however long it takes to train the model. A lot of time, for an Atari game that most humans pick up within a few minutes. 18 million frames is actually pretty good, when you consider that the previous record (Distributional DQN (Bellemare et al, 2017)) needed 70 million frames to hit 100% median performance, which is about 4x more time. As for the Nature DQN (Mnih et al, 2015), it never hits 100% median performance, even after 200 million frames of experience.

#### If You Just Care About Final Performance, Many Problems are Better Solved by Other Methods

> Reinforcement learning can theoretically work for anything, including environments where a model of the world isn’t known. However, this generality comes at a price: it’s hard to exploit any problem-specific information that could help with learning, which forces you to use tons of samples to learn things that could have been hardcoded.

> The rule-of-thumb is that except in rare cases, domain-specific algorithms work faster and better than reinforcement learning. This isn’t a problem if you’re doing deep RL for deep RL’s sake, but I personally find it frustrating when I compare RL’s performance to, well, anything else. One reason I liked AlphaGo so much was because it was an unambiguous win for deep RL, and that doesn’t happen very often.

#### Reward Function Design is Difficult

> Importantly, for RL to do the right thing, your reward function must capture exactly what you want. And I mean exactly. RL has an annoying tendency to overfit to your reward, leading to things you didn’t expect. This is why Atari is such a nice benchmark. Not only is it easy to get lots of samples, the goal in every game is to maximize score, so you never have to worry about defining your reward, and you know everyone else has the same reward function.

> Making a reward function isn’t that difficult. The difficulty comes when you try to design a reward function that encourages the behaviors you want while still being learnable.

> One way to address this is to make the reward sparse, by only giving positive reward after the robot stacks the block. Sometimes, this works, because the sparse reward is learnable. Often, it doesn’t, because the lack of positive reinforcement makes everything too difficult. The other way to address this is to do careful reward shaping, adding new reward terms and tweaking coefficients of existing ones until the behaviors you want to learn fall out of the RL algorithm. It’s possible to fight RL on this front, but it’s a very unfulfilling fight. On occasion, it’s necessary, but I’ve never felt like I’ve learnt anything by doing it.

#### Even Given a Good Reward, Local Optima Can Be Hard To Escape

> These are both cases of the classic exploration-exploitation problem that has dogged reinforcement learning since time immemorial. Your data comes from your current policy. If your current policy explores too much you get junk data and learn nothing. Exploit too much and you burn-in behaviors that aren’t optimal.

> There are several intuitively pleasing ideas for addressing this - intrinsic motivation, curiosity-driven exploration, count-based exploration, and so forth. Many of these approaches were first proposed in the 1980s or earlier, and several of them have been revisited with deep learning models. However, as far as I know, none of them work consistently across all environments.

> I’ve taken to imagining deep RL as a demon that’s deliberately misinterpreting your reward and actively searching for the laziest possible local optima. It’s a bit ridiculous, but I’ve found it’s actually a productive mindset to have.

#### Even When Deep RL Works, It May Just Be Overfitting to Weird Patterns In the Environment
> The upside of reinforcement learning is that if you want to do well in an environment, you’re free to overfit like crazy. The downside is that if you want to generalize to any other environment, you’re probably going to do poorly, because you overfit like crazy.

> That being said, there are some neat results from competitive self-play environments that seem to contradict this. OpenAI has a nice blog post of some of their work in this space. Self-play is also an important part of both AlphaGo and AlphaZero. My intuition is that if your agents are learning at the same pace, they can continually challenge each other and speed up each other’s learning, but if one of them learns much faster, it exploits the weaker player too much and overfits. As you relax from symmetric self-play to general multiagent settings, it gets harder to ensure learning happens at the same speed.

#### Even Ignoring Generalization Issues, The Final Results Can be Unstable and Hard to Reproduce
> Almost every ML algorithm has hyperparameters, which influence the behavior of the learning system. Often, these are picked by hand, or by random search. Supervised learning is stable. Fixed dataset, ground truth targets. If you change the hyperparameters a little bit, your performance won’t change that much. Not all hyperparameters perform well, but with all the empirical tricks discovered over the years, many hyperparams will show signs of life during training. These signs of life are super important, because they tell you that you’re on the right track, you’re doing something reasonable, and it’s worth investing more time.

>  [in this chart](https://www.alexirpan.com/2018/02/14/rl-hard.html) Each line is the reward curve from one of 10 independent runs. Same hyperparameters, the only difference is the random seed. Seven of these runs worked. Three of these runs didn’t. A 30% failure rate counts as working.

> [This picture](https://www.alexirpan.com/public/rl-hard/dimensionsdebugging.png) is from “Why is Machine Learning ‘Hard’?”. The core thesis is that machine learning adds more dimensions to your space of failure cases, which exponentially increases the number of ways you can fail. Deep RL adds a new dimension: random chance. And the only way you can address random chance is by throwing enough experiments at the problem to drown out the noise.

#### A Case Study: Neural Architecture Search (continue from here)
> As mentioned above, the reward is validation accuracy. This is a very rich reward signal - if a neural net design decision only increases accuracy from 70% to 71%, RL will still pick up on this. Additionally, there’s evidence that hyperparameters in deep learning are close to linearly independent. (This was empirically shown in Hyperparameter Optimization: A Spectral Approach (Hazan et al, 2017) - a summary by me is here if interested.) NAS isn’t exactly tuning hyperparameters, but I think it’s reasonable that neural net design decisions would act similarly. This is good news for learning, because the correlations between decision and performance are strong. Finally, not only is the reward rich, it’s actually what we care about when we train models.

#### Looking to The Future
1. Local optima are good enough
2. Hardware solves everything
3. Add more learning signal
4. Model-based learning unlocks sample efficiency:
    The problem is that learning good models is hard. My impression is that low-dimensional state models work sometimes, and image models are usually too hard. But, if this gets easier, some interesting things could happen.

    Dyna (Sutton, 1991) and Dyna-2 (Silver et al., ICML 2008) are classical papers in this space. For papers combining model-based learning with deep nets, I would recommend a few recent papers from the Berkeley robotics labs: Neural Network Dynamics for Model-Based Deep RL with Model-Free Fine-Tuning (Nagabandi et al, 2017, Self-Supervised Visual Planning with Temporal Skip Connections (Ebert et al, CoRL 2017), Combining Model-Based and Model-Free Updates for Trajectory-Centric Reinforcement Learning (Chebotar et al, ICML 2017). Deep Spatial Autoencoders for Visuomotor Learning (Finn et al, ICRA 2016), and Guided Policy Search (Levine et al, JMLR 2016).
5. Use reinforcement learning just as the fine-tuning step
6. Reward functions could be learnable:
    The promise of ML is that we can use data to learn things that are better than human design. If reward function design is so hard, Why not apply this to learn better reward functions? Imitation learning and inverse reinforcement learning are both rich fields that have shown reward functions can be implicitly defined by human demonstrations or human ratings.

    For famous papers in inverse RL and imitation learning, see Algorithms for Inverse Reinforcement Learning (Ng and Russell, ICML 2000), Apprenticeship Learning via Inverse Reinforcement Learning (Abbeel and Ng, ICML 2004), and DAgger (Ross, Gordon, and Bagnell, AISTATS 2011).

    For recent work scaling these ideas to deep learning, see Guided Cost Learning (Finn et al, ICML 2016), Time-Constrastive Networks (Sermanet et al, 2017), and Learning From Human Preferences (Christiano et al, NIPS 2017). (The Human Preferences paper in particular showed that a reward learned from human ratings was actually better-shaped for learning than the original hardcoded reward, which is a neat practical result.)

    For longer term work that doesn’t use deep learning, I liked Inverse Reward Design (Hadfield-Menell et al, NIPS 2017) and Learning Robot Objectives from Physical Human Interaction (Bajcsy et al, CoRL 2017).
7. Transfer learning saves the day:
    Universal Value Function Approximators (Schaul et al, ICML 2015), Distral (Whye Teh et al, NIPS 2017), and Overcoming Catastrophic Forgetting (Kirkpatrick et al, PNAS 2017) are recent works in this direction. For older work, consider reading Horde (Sutton et al, AAMAS 2011).
8. Good priors could heavily reduce learning time: A summary of recent learning-to-learn work can be found in this post from BAIR (Berkeley AI Research).
9. Harder environments could paradoxically be easier:
    One of the big lessons from the DeepMind parkour paper is that if you make your task very difficult by adding several task variations, you can actually make the learning easier, because the policy cannot overfit to any one setting without losing performance on all the other settings. We’ve seen a similar thing in the domain randomization papers, and even back to ImageNet: models trained on ImageNet will generalize way better than ones trained on CIFAR-100. As I said above, maybe we’re just an “ImageNet for control” away from making RL considerably more generic.

    Environment wise, there are a lot of options. OpenAI Gym easily has the most traction, but there’s also the Arcade Learning Environment, Roboschool, DeepMind Lab, the DeepMind Control Suite, and ELF.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[reinforcement-learning]: ..\reinforcement-learning "Reinforcement Learning"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"